# Calculation of the extinction, absorption, and scattering cross-sections of ellipsoids in the quasistatic approximation as a first approximation of erythrocytes.

The study of the optical properties of biological cells, such as osteoblasts, lymphocytes, and **erythrocytes**, is fundamental for medical applications, including disease diagnosis and the development of optical therapies. In particular, erythrocytes, due to their biconcave discoid shape and lack of a nucleus, can be modeled as homogeneous structures. For their analysis, models such as Cassini ovals or functions in spherical coordinates have been used, although a simplified approach allows them to be represented as **oblate ellipsoids**.

In this work, the **optical response** of ellipsoids was analyzed by means of the **scattering, absorption, and extinction cross-sections**, under the **quasistatic approximation** as a simplified model of healthy erythrocytes. To do this, the solution to the problem of an arbitrary sphere illuminated by a plane wave, known as **Mie theory**, was studied. Subsequently, the analytical solution to the problem of light scattering by arbitrary ellipsoidal particles in the quasistatic approximation was analyzed, studying the extinction, absorption, and scattering cross-sections. Finally, the behavior of light scattering and absorption by an ellipsoid centered at the origin was studied in this same regime, where the results were compared with the response of spheres, also calculated in the quasistatic limit.

As a result, the absorption, scattering, and extinction cross-sections were calculated, under the quasistatic approximation, for oblate ellipsoidal particles, using the **Drude model** with parameters corresponding to **aluminum** and **experimental data** for **silver, gold, bismuth, and magnesium oxide** as the dielectric function. It was found that in the quasistatic limit, for ellipsoidal particles modeled by the Drude model with aluminum parameters, absorption is the predominant contribution to extinction, while scattering is negligible. In the range where the Drude model fits the behavior of the materials, two plasmonic resonances associated with the illumination in different directions of the ellipsoid were identified. For more realistic materials, it was determined that it is necessary to include additional contributions to the plasmonic ones, such as those described by the Lorentz model.
